Thou art most welcome, good friend, to this humble house.
What light through yonder window breaks upon my weary eyes?
Prithee, tell me, wherefore dost thou weep so bitterly?
I shall not bow to any man who speaks with a forked tongue.
Good morrow, gentle sir, how fares thy noble heart today?
Alas, the night is long and sorrow sits upon my chest.
Speak not of fear, for courage dwells within thy breast.
O sweet delight, how swiftly dost thou fly from me!
Hark, the bells do toll and summon every soul to prayer.
Fie upon thee, knave, for thou hast wronged a faithful friend!
Methinks the moon doth smile upon our secret meeting.
Wilt thou walk with me beneath the silver stars tonight?
I do beseech thee, lend me thine ear for but a moment.
Thy words are sweeter than the honey of a summer bee.
Woe is me, for all my hopes lie shattered at my feet.
Come hither, fair maiden, and tell me what troubles thee.
By my troth, I never saw a face so fair as thine.
The hour is late, and yet my heart will not be still.
Doth my lord command it, then it shall be done at once.
Away with thee, thou rogue, and trouble me no more!
Gentle night, good night, till morning bring us joy again.
What say you, noble friend, shall we ride at break of day?
Thou hast a tongue sharper than any sword in all the land.
I fear the king is wroth, and we shall pay the price.
Pray, sit and take thy rest, for thou hast journeyed far.
Verily, I say the truth is a lamp that never dies.
O cruel fate, why dost thou mock a poor and humble man?
Mine eyes have seen the glory of a thousand golden mornings.
Tarry a while, sweet friend, and share a cup of wine with me.
Thy kindness is a balm unto my wounded spirit.
Hearken, good people, for I bring you tidings from afar.
The raven cries upon the rooftop, and I fear some ill will come.
Fare thee well, my love, until the stars shall bring thee home.
Thou art a villain, sir, and I shall prove it with my blade.
How now, my lord, what news doth trouble thy brow so?
Nay, speak not so, for grief hath made thee blind to hope.
I would not trade one hour of thy company for all the gold of Spain.
The rose doth bloom but briefly, yet its sweetness lingers on.
Let not thy heart be heavy, for the dawn shall chase the dark.
O gentle sleep, wilt thou not close my weary eyes tonight?
Behold, the sun doth rise upon a new and shining day!
Good sir, I pray thee, show me the road unto the village.
Thou speakest like a scholar, though thy coat be torn and worn.
My heart is as a bird that beats against its narrow cage.
Say, wherefore dost thou frown upon so fair a morning?
I am but a poor servant, yet I serve with all my soul.
Cursed be the hour that I did trust thy honeyed words!
Peace, good friends, let not anger rule the feast tonight.
The wind doth whisper secrets through the ancient oaks.
Dost thou not see the fire of love that burns within mine eyes?
Anon, I shall return, and bring thee tidings of the war.
O valiant knight, thy name shall echo through the ages!
Forsooth, the jest was merry, and the laughter filled the hall.
What fools these mortals be, who chase the shadows of the day!
I charge thee, speak the truth, or hold thy tongue forever.
Sweet lady, thy beauty doth outshine the morning star.
Thy father's wrath is like a storm upon the open sea.
I'll follow thee to the ends of the earth and back again.
Beware the whispers of a flatterer, for they carry poison.
The candle burns low, and so doth my fading hope.
Come, let us drink to friendship, and to all our days of mirth!
Thou hast broken my heart, and yet I cannot hate thee.
Hast thou no shame, thou base and faithless knave?
The lark doth sing at heaven's gate, and wakes the sleeping world.
Mercy is a gift that drops like gentle rain from heaven.
I pray thee, good physician, heal my brother's fevered brow.
O brave new world, that hath such wonders in it!
Marry, sir, thou art mistaken, for I never spake those words.
The crown sits heavy on the head that wears it.
Hold thy peace, fond fool, and mark what I shall say.
My kingdom for a steed, to carry me from this dark field!
Let us be merry, for tomorrow we may weep.
Thou art as constant as the northern star, my dearest friend.
Ah, the sweet sorrow of parting, how it lingers in the heart!
What ho, good host, bring forth thy finest bread and wine!
I will not yield, though all the world should stand against me.
Thy silence speaks louder than a thousand trumpets.
Lo, the hills are bathed in gold, and evening draweth near.
Dear brother, I have wronged thee, and I beg thy sweet forgiveness.
It is the east, and fair Juliet is the sun.
Fortune is a fickle jade, and spins her wheel for all.
Why dost thou stare at me so, as though I were a ghost?
Draw thy sword, thou coward, and meet thy end like a man!
The tale is old, yet every heart doth feel it new.
Gentle sir, I thank thee for thy courtesy and care.
Time doth flow like a river, and none may stay its course.
O wretched me, that ever I was born to see this day!
Be not afraid, for I am with thee in the darkest hour.
Thou hast the wit of ten men and the heart of a lion.
Soft, what noise is that which creeps along the garden wall?
Let me count the ways in which I honour thee, my friend.
The feast is ready, noble guests, so come and take your seats.
I would sooner dwell in a cottage with thee than in a palace alone.
Thy promise is as brittle as the winter ice.
Rejoice, good people, for the war is done and peace is come!
Prithee, what is this thing that men do call true love?
My lord, the hour is nigh, and the messenger awaits thy word.
O fairest flower of the field, wilt thou not bloom for me?
I have sworn an oath, and I shall keep it till I die.
Thou art a jewel in a crown of common stones.
Hush now, the walls have ears, and the night hath eyes.
Pity the man who loves not music, for his soul is cold.
What storm is this that tears the heavens asunder?
Thy courage doth inspire the weakest hearts among us.
Sirrah, fetch me my cloak, for the evening air is chill.
The jester sings of folly, yet speaks the wisest truth.
Ere the cock doth crow thrice, I shall be far from here.
My dearest friend, thy absence weighs upon my spirit like lead.
Give me my robe, put on my crown, I have immortal longings in me.
Gladly would I learn, and gladly would I teach.
There is a tide in the affairs of men, which taken at the flood leads on to fortune.
Out, out, brief candle, for life is but a walking shadow!
Thou shalt not pass, for I do guard this gate with my life.
Sweet are the uses of adversity, which wear a precious jewel in their head.
I am a man more sinned against than sinning.
Lord, what fools these mortals be when love doth turn their heads!
Thy beauty hath bewitched me, and I am thy servant now.
Wherefore art thou so sad, good lady, on this joyous day?
The quality of mercy is not strained, but falls like gentle rain.
Come what may, time and the hour run through the roughest day.
I would the gods had made thee poetical, my gentle friend.
All the world is a stage, and all the men and women merely players.
Hence, vile wretch, and never darken my door again!
Good night, good night, parting is such sweet sorrow.
O heavy heart, why dost thou ache for what is lost?
Thou art the very soul of kindness, and the pride of this fair town.
Let slip the dogs of war, and let the trumpets sound!
Alas, poor Yorick, I knew him well, a fellow of infinite jest.
My tongue shall speak what my heart hath long concealed.
Fair is foul, and foul is fair, in this strange and wicked land.
Cease thy weeping, gentle maid, for joy shall find thee soon.
He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
The better part of valour is discretion, good my friend.
Strike not, my lord, for blood begets but blood again.
Thou dost protest too much, methinks, and doubt doth fill my mind.
Hail, noble Caesar, mighty ruler of the realm!
Tell me, sweet friend, what dreams didst thou behold last night?
O thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name, let us call thee devil!
We few, we happy few, we band of brothers.
Be thou a friend to all, but trust thou only the few.
The night hath fallen, and the stars do keep their watch.
Brevity is the soul of wit, and I have talked too long.
Pray you, good madam, pardon my rude and clumsy speech.
Thou art mine own, and I am thine, till death us do part.
Lend me your ears, good citizens, for I come to speak of honour.
Is this a dagger which I see before me, the handle toward my hand?
Double, double toil and trouble, fire burn and cauldron bubble.
Cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once.
Mark me well, for I shall say this only once.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
I do love thee more than words can ever tell.
Go to, go to, thou art a merry knave and I do like thee well.
Thy sweet voice is music to my weary soul.
O Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo?
What a piece of work is man, how noble in reason!
I shall be brief, for the sun is sinking and the road is long.
Thou hast conquered my heart without a single blow.
Pardon me, good sir, for I have lost my way in the dark wood.
The poor soul sat sighing by a sycamore tree.
Whence comest thou, stranger, and what business hast thou here?
Gramercy, kind friend, for thy gift hath saved my life.
Thou art a flatterer, and I shall have none of thy sweet lies.
Fie, fie, what a thing is jealousy, that mocks the meat it feeds on!
Haste thee, good messenger, and bear this letter to my lord.
Methinks I see my father, in my mind's eye, standing proud.
Nothing in his life became him like the leaving of it.
Sleep hath knit up the raveled sleeve of care.
O sweet content, where dost thou dwell, that I may find thee?
Thou wilt not lie to me, for thy face is an open book.
Bid the musicians play, for tonight we dance until the dawn!
I am in blood stepped in so far that returning were as tedious as go o'er.
Dost thou think, because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale?
What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.
Good friend, forbear, and let the wounded rest in peace.
Thou art the sunshine of my cloudy days, sweet Kate.
Take heed, my lord, for envy lurks in every shadow.
My hours are heavy, and the days crawl like snails.
Come, gentle death, and ease this troubled heart of mine.
Swear not by the moon, th' inconstant moon, that monthly changes in her circled orb.
I'll tell thee a tale of woe, if thou wilt lend thine ear.
Let not ambition mock their useful toil, nor grandeur hear with a disdainful smile.
Truly, thou art damned, like an ill-roasted egg, all on one side.
The sun doth set, and with it fades my courage and my song.
O proud and cruel world, how little dost thou care for those who weep!
Thy hand in mine, sweet love, we shall face the storm as one.
Let us away, for the hunt is up, and the morning is fair!
Poor wretch, thou hast no home, and yet thou dost not curse thy fate.
How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child!
Bring me no more reports, let them fly all, till Birnam wood remove to Dunsinane.
Where the bee sucks, there suck I, in a cowslip's bell I lie.
Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this sun.
Go hence, and leave me to my solitary grief.
Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears.
Sweet prince, good night, and flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.
O, that this too, too solid flesh would melt, thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
Thou art too wise to be so wicked, and too good to be so cruel.
Look to thy honour, sir, for slander is a sharper blade than steel.
Our revels now are ended, and all is melted into air.
What's past is prologue, and the future lies before us.
Thou speakest wiser than thou art ware of, good fool.
I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.
Let me not to the marriage of true minds admit impediments.
Good morrow, fair friend, may the day bring thee naught but gladness.
The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices make instruments to plague us.
Though she be but little, she is fierce.
My love is as a fever, longing still for that which longer nurseth the disease.
Beauty is but a vain and doubtful good, a shining gloss that fadeth suddenly.
